---
title: On Fear and Courage
date: 2015-01-05 19:42 UTC
tags:
---

In 2014, one of the things I deliberately set out to do was to confront my
fears. To me, this meant learning how to leave my comfort zones, because I
believe that some of the greatest and most impactful growth occurs when we are
outside of our comfort zones. 

At a certain point in the year, a lot of the core fixtures of my life — my work
life, home life, and personal life — demanded to be evaluated. I didn’t wake up
one day and began to reconsider the current facts of my life. Rather, other the
course of months, I noticed my harmonious rhythm gradually evolve into more
frequent bursts of irritation and confusion.

To offset these nagging feelings, I tried to change up small habits to improve
my well-being: I began running four times a week, going to the gym, cooking
home cooked meals more often, and studying French. I loved doing all of those
things. And yet, those bigger fixtures in my life continued asking for my
attention…

I’ve come to accept that in life, there will always be some sense of
discomfort. Nothing is perfect, and for good reason. What I was trying to gauge
during this period was, is the discomfort I felt a natural one as part of life,
or was it really an internal voice warning me that something was off?

During this process, after I decided to be open the gates for changes in my
life to occur, I saw my opportunities blossom. I was both open to new jobs, new
people, new places.

While uncertainty can be scary, it’s equally fruitless to attempt to control or
force the outcome of a situation. The one example dealing with my current
situation right now is the state of my housing. I’m transitioning to a new
apartment to live within the Bay Area. Anyone who lives here can attest to what
a nightmare it is. The process typically involves responding to fifty
Craigslist postings and receiving few if any response. Beyond the fact that
there is a housing crisis in this current climate, you also can’t help but take
it a little personally when potentially roommates choose to not respond to your
email. I can’t control if people choose to not respond to me. However, what I
can do is send those email solicitations out and hope for the best. I could
only steer the ship in the direction I feel would be best for me.


What compelled me to truly open the gates in my life for radical change? When
that discomfort was begging me much that I realized that there was nothing left
to lose… except fear.

It hit me that when we overcome our fears, we’re left with the courage that had
always been there the entire time. I think that at our core, we are made up of
a large flaming and passionate ball of courage, yet we sometimes cannot tap
into it because of the mask of fear caging it. I appreciated the imagery evoked
in my mind when I voiced this to myself.

The sort of courage I got to uncover for myself is the courage to love, be
patient, keep an open heart and an open mind. While in this process I sorted it
a lot of tangible shifts in my life, the biggest shift was the mental one I
underwent: discovering my own Lisa-flavored courage that was in my core. You
have that too, and I hope you get to dig into that for yourself.
