---
title: How I went from the liberal arts to tech
date: 2014-12-05 18:52 UTC
tags:
---

Almost two years ago, I left my ethnic studies readings and stacks of essays on
18th century literature in central Connecticut for the fast-paced and
innovative tech scene in San Francisco.

Gone are my college days of sitting in on small seminars where I discussed
topics ranging from 19th century American economic history, to Baroque art
symbolisms, to the problematic consequences of the social construction of race
and other identities. My classmates and friends read Karl Marx and Judith
Butler, taught English to non-English-speaking university staff employees,
fought for food justice in the local community, and wrote senior essays and
theses on topics of education, race, Brazilian music, and reproductive health
justice.

Those days have been replaced with client meetings in a skyscraper in downtown
San Francisco, where we discuss how to build profitable web applications that
people will use. I talk to my co-workers about practicing the best design
patterns in our HTML and SASS code. I’ve picked up technical jargon regarding
databases, DNS, CDN, continuous integration. I’ve learned about Series A
fundings, angel investment, company valuations, and such. If I am at a coffee
shop in San Francisco, I’ll inevitably see at least a few people sporting a
sweatshirt branded with a startup logo, coding furiously behind their Macbooks.

During my last two years of college, I spent my weekends learning the skills I
needed to join the glittering San Francisco Tech Scene. I diligently researched
what skills I needed to acquire: UI and UX design, HTML/CSS/Javascript, and
such. I juggled my time between reading chapters on Mao’s revolution in my
Modern China textbook to reading how to build a Ruby on Rails application.
Sometimes, it was difficult figuring out what was my biggest priority; acing my
midterm, or successfully implementing a jQuery function to create a cool
animation. I knew that after college, I wanted to work on creative projects in
an interesting city. The pipe dream was to work as a designer at a tech company
in San Francisco.

With engineers and designers in high demand at tech start-ups in the Bay Area,
I was fortunate enough to find stable employment after graduation. But my
circumstance is an anomaly; we all know how difficult it is to find a job these
days. It’s particularly hard for recent college graduates, where our work
experience is sometimes measured by the work experience, which we don’t always
have a lot of because we just came out of school. Thus, people have always been
urged to study business, engineering, or medicine to get a leg up in finding a
job after college.

While there was a brief stint where I considered majoring in business because
my parents urged me too, I’m glad that I didn’t. I’m glad that I got to tap
into my curiosity to learn about the intersections of race, gender, and class
in the context of modern history and events. Granted, I don’t talk about
identity formations everyday with my clients who want me to build web
applications for them, but studying interdisciplinary disciplines taught me how
to think critically and connect the dots. The higher-level skills I gained in
my college education — the critical thinking skills, communication skills, and
holistically-minded thinking — are invaluable to my work as a designer today.

Technology is the set of tools and systems that humans have created to enhance
their lived experiences in their environments. From the tools that
hunter-gatherers constructed to hunt livestock, to the construction of the
transcontinental railroad that connected one coast to the other in mid-19th
century America, to the smartphones in all of our pockets proliferating today,
we strive to optimize our experiences in the world. If we merely try to study
how to create a thing without thinking of the broader landscape, we’re merely
thinking of concepts in a vacuum without consideration of their meanings and
consequences at large.

Sometimes during college, my friends and I would joke about how we wouldn’t
find a place in the “real-world” to apply our knowledge of critical race
scholarship. While people may view humanities as irrelevant knowledge with no
practical value, I wholeheartedly disagree. The humanities studies what makes
humans feel more whole. To study the humanities is to learn how to serve your
role in society. The humanities encompasses not only English and history, but
philosophy, religion, sociology, biology, astronomy, and economics. The
humanities is inherently interdisciplinary. I truly believe that the humanities
teaches you how to become a better citizen. Studying the liberal arts has made
me a more informed designer.

If you want to work in tech, don’t hesitate to study the liberal arts if that
is what will fuel your curiosity. You don’t need to major in engineering or
business to enter tech.

I love how innovative the tech scene is, but I will also say that the industry
would benefit from greater diversity; we need more women, people of color,
queer people, and humanities-trained thinkers. We need to get away from trying
to solve first-world, privileged, straight-white-male problems (which sometimes
aren’t real problems anyway), and figure out how to use technology to (attempt
to) solve larger problems like income inequality and a broken public education
system.

Study the humanities if you would like. Read and write words. Discuss ideas.
Learn how people, societies, relationships, systems, and the world work. And
lastly, see what you could do to be apart of the bigger picture.
